# Winterworld

Beware of some minor spoilers for the series below.

The HBO revival of Westworld was absolutely fantastic TV.  I won't write a post here about the plot of the series, there are lots of places on the internet where one can read about the show.  

The Westworld park is so well realized that I couldn't help but think about a similar scenario based on a winter world.  Imagine a world of 24/7 perfect trails and sledding conditions.  Easy runs, challenging expeditions and always a warm lodge at the end of the day.

Absolute bliss!

But what about the dogs?  In the intro to each episode we see how the hosts in Westworld are constructed.  They are literally woven out of some type of liquid filament.  Once complete the hosts are nearly indistinguishable from humans.  Even great bodily trauma doesn't betray their true nature.  While the show doesn't spend any time dwelling on the animal inhabitants of the park, we do get glimpses of horses being constructed and trained.  Why would one even bother to spend what must be a small fortune to create an artificial horse or dog in Westworld?  Surely because the guests can do whatever they please, often times with gruesome results, it makes ethical sense to do so.  

I've spent a fair amount of time thinking about how having access to this type of technology would change my views about working with dogs.  Would I prefer to have an artificial sled dog over the real thing?  [minor spoiler] For all intents and purposes the hosts in Westworld are programmable humans.  If it was possible to program the behaviour of the perfect lead dog or wheel dog and build a team of these synthetic animals, would the sport still be so thrilling?  When I started writing this post a few weeks ago I wasn't sure about that.  


