# First Game Jam

Causal Coffee

I recently participated in my first 2-day game jam, hosted by my employer Budge Studios.  It was a great experience.  In addition to hosting the game jam, we also received an Arcade machine where we would install our games for everyone to play.  With this in mind I knew I wanted to create something that would really take advantage of the four player joystick board.  Our team, The Magnum Four, consisted of Michel Lebrun, Guillaume Asselin, Marc-Andre Baudette and myself.  My biggest concern was that we could make something fun to play within the time constraints.  It turns out I had nothing to worry about.

Themes: Coffee, Temperature, (slack)Bot, Cake, Fruit, Monster.

Everyone's games were awesome!

Our game titled "Casual Coffee" was a classic 4 player vertical split screen style game.  Stage one, fill your cup with the coffee dripping from the coffee bot.  Not as easy as it sounds, the bot was not very good at staying in one place.  Stage 2, cool your coffee to a drinkable temperature by blowing on it (or tapping the buttons as fast as you can!)  Stage 3, Drink your cofffee buy nailing the button combos on the screen.  First one with an empty cup is the winner, Recieving a nice slice of cake.  Arriving at the finish line in second place or worse provided a different reward.  With Michel's classic art style and Marc-Andres thrasing soundtrack and effects I think we've made a classic.  I think that the game is a lot of fun because the controls are very simple and suited to the Arcade machine, and because the game is fast paced and crazy.  Perfect for a quick break and a laugh.



