# San Junipero

Season three of [Black Mirror](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Mirror) was fantastic.  The show mostly deals with the dark side of technology.  This season there was one uncharacteristically uplifting episode, [San Junipero](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/San_Junipero).   Spoilers follow, so if you haven't watched it and want to, you should stop reading.  Remember that you can watch episodes of Black Mirror in any order, and they are on Netflix right now. Go for it, I'll wait.

In the episode we follow a young woman named Yorkie who is visiting the party town of San Junipero for the first time.  Though awkward and shy, she falls for a young woman named Kelly.  It seems to be 1987 but it is soon revealed that the town of San Junipero isn't a real place at all but a computer simulation in a future where terminally ill patients can have their consciousness permanently uploaded after their body dies.

It's pretty far out science fiction right now but this type of technology will probably be available to humans in the next hundred years or so.  The episode raises a lot of ethical questions about the right to die (or live) and if it's fair to continue to live while other people were denied a chance like the one presented in the episode. 

Because it's not the type of cautionary techno-tale that one would expect from Black Mirror, a lot of people were talking about it.  One of the podcasts I listen to [Hello Internet](http://www.hellointernet.fm/podcast/74) devoted an entire episode to season three of Black Mirror.

One of Bradey's main points against the possibility of doing something like this was that if one were able to transfer a human consciousness to some sort of non biological medium, it wouldn't really be a continuation of the same conscious experience. It would just be a copy, while the original consciousness would be lost.  I tend to think this is the case, that a copy is just that, resulting in two distinct consciousnesses and that the original one would be destroyed at death.

There might be a solution to this problem however.  What if one were able to augment human consciousness in such a way as to add new abilities via hardware implants.  At the same time these bits of hardware would become part of the host's consciousness.  There would presumably be nothing preventing the gradual expansion of mental ability and consciousness over to this hardware.  At that point one could remove what remains of the original human grey matter without suffering any loss of capability.  The result would be that a human consciousness was transferred to another medium, and it would truly be a continuation of the original consciousness.  

Of course after writing this post, while doing some research I discovered I'm not the first one to think of this sort of thing, as proved by this wikipedia article about a hypothetical external brain, the [exocortex](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exocortex)

Ah and it seems that I did read [Acelerando](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Accelerando) years ago.

There's a lot more to lean about the subject of [Mind Uploading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mind_uploading) on wikipedia.





